# 1. Reference
https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/developers


# 2. What

This section includes information for builders. If you are building decentralized apps on top of Geth, head to the Dapp developers docs. If you are developing Geth itself, explore the Geth developers docs.


# 3. Dapp developers
Geth has many features that support dapp developers. There are many built-in tracers implemented in Go or Javascript that allow developers to monitor what is happening in Geth from inside an app, and users can build their own custom tracers too. Geth also includes a suite of tools for interacting with Ethereum smart contracts using Geth functions using Go functions inside Go native applications. There is also information for Geth mobile developers.

Dev mode
Go API
Go Account management
Go contract bindings
Go contract bindings (v2)
Geth for mobile


# 4. EVM tracing
Tracing allows developers to analyze precisely what the EVM has done or will do given a certain set of commands. This section outlines the various ways tracing can be implemented in Geth.

Introduction
Basic traces
Built-in tracers
Custom EVM tracers
Live tracing
Tutorial for Javascript tracing


# 5. Geth developers
Geth developers add/remove features and fix bugs in Geth. The geth-developer section includes contribution guidelines and documentation relating to testing and disclosing vulnerabilities that will help you get started with working on Geth.

Developer guide
Disclosures
DNS discovery setup guide
Code review guidelines
Contributing
